---
title: UI text - Increased new sign-ups by 30 percent
date: 2026-03-06 00:00:00 -0800
#categories: [ui_text, example]
#tags: [ui text]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

**Use case:**

New users were abandoning an Amazon CloudFront distribution creation workflow in a GUI. The workflow had dozens of options, which was overwhelming for inexperienced users. The solution was to optimize the workflow by preselecting options that fit most major use cases, while reserving the ability to modify the preselections as needed. We also introduced a streamlined domain setup option and separated the entire process into four distinct workflow steps.

**Skills I used:** 
- Technical writing and UX writing 
- Cross-functional collaboration and consultation
- Terminology and content governance
- Information architecture 
- Applied UX research findings
- Error message design
- Content gap analysis and proactive problem solving 

**What I did:**
- Collaborated closely with the UX designer, product manager, and front end engineers to write UI text, help panels, error messages, and developer documentation for the new UI. 
- Confirmed proper terminology use for other AWS services that interacted with the UI.  
- Advised on placement of **Info** links for help panels (in-context help) and worked on text for headers. Ensured that we didn’t start multiple headers with the same word, because UX research indicated that users tended to scan the first words of each text item on a webpage. 
- Refined error messages with specific terminology and actions users could take to resolve the errors.
- Identified and proactively addressed a content gap for the domain setup option. We didn’t have documentation explaining the domain checking process or how to update DNS records. These were required manual steps for users to complete, but for years it was assumed that people would just know how to do it. I addressed this content gap with a help panel and a link to a more in-depth developer guide topic, collaborating with a solutions architect to confirm common use cases. 

**Result:**

After a couple months of the new UI experience, we saw 30% more new users completing the distribution creation workflow.

[See the UI example](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1LstyMSnkzzs3TFCyUjEeIDl9uzb0c8PN?usp=drive_link)

[See the domain setup topic](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudFront/latest/DeveloperGuide/add-domain-existing-distribution.html)
